[DOC] New quick start guide (#1945)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/proc-creating-kafka-cluster.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-evaluation.adoc

[id='proc-kafka-cluster-{context}']
= Creating a cluster

Create a Kafka cluster, then a topic within the cluster.

When you create a cluster, the Cluster Operator you deployed listens for new Kafka resources.

.Prerequisites

* For the Kafka cluster, a Cluster Operator is deployed
* For the topic, a running Kafka cluster

.Procedure

. Log in to the Kubernetes cluster as a non-privileged user.

. Create a new `my-cluster` Kafka cluster with 3 Zookeeper and 3 broker nodes.
+
* Use `ephemeral` storage
* Expose the Kafka cluster outside of the Kubernetes cluster using an external listener configured to use a `loadbalancer`.
+
--
[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
cat << EOF | kubectl create -n my-kafka-project -f -
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 3
    listeners:
      plain: {}
      tls: {}
      external:
        type: loadbalancer
    storage:
      type: ephemeral
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 3
    storage:
      type: ephemeral
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
EOF
----
--

> . Now that your cluster is running, create a topic to publish and subscribe from your external client.

Reviewer: Do we need a step to wait for the cluster to be ready?

Author: Yes. We should have more verification steps, actually. Thanks.

Reviewer: `kubectl wait kafka/my-cluster --for=condition=Ready --timeout=300s -n <namespace>`

//
// assembly-evaluation.adoc

[id='proc-kafka-cluster-{context}']
= Creating a cluster

Create a Kafka cluster, then a topic within the cluster.

When you create a cluster, the Cluster Operator you deployed listens for new Kafka resources.

.Prerequisites

* For the Kafka cluster, a Cluster Operator is deployed
* For the topic, a running Kafka cluster

.Procedure

. Log in to the Kubernetes cluster as a non-privileged user.

. Create a new `my-cluster` Kafka cluster with 3 Zookeeper and 3 broker nodes.
+
* Use `ephemeral` storage
* Expose the Kafka cluster outside of the Kubernetes cluster using an external listener configured to use a `loadbalancer`.
+
--
[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
cat << EOF | kubectl create -n my-kafka-project -f -
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 3
    listeners:
      plain: {}
      tls: {}
      external:
        type: loadbalancer
    storage:
      type: ephemeral
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 3
    storage:
      type: ephemeral
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
EOF
----
--

. Verify that the cluster was successfully deployed:
+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----

> kubectl get deployments

Reviewer 2: I think we should use the status of the Kafka resource here. The `kubectl get deployments` would not return much useful.

Author: Do we want:

`kubectl rollout status -w my-cluster`
`kubectl describe deployment my-cluster`

Reviewer 2: There is no single deployment which you can list. You can probably do somethinf like this what @tombentley used in the quickstarts:

```
kubectl wait kafka/my-cluster --for=condition=Ready --timeout=300s -n kafka 
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-evaluation.adoc

[id='proc-kafka-cluster-{context}']
= Creating a cluster

Create a Kafka cluster, then a topic within the cluster.

> When you create a cluster, the Cluster Operator you deployed listens for new Kafka resources.

Reviewer 3: I would say watches instead of listens

.Prerequisites

* For the Kafka cluster, a Cluster Operator is deployed
* For the topic, a running Kafka cluster

.Procedure

. Log in to the Kubernetes cluster as a non-privileged user.

> . Create a new `my-cluster` Kafka cluster with 1 Zookeeper and 1 broker nodes.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we use the word 'one' not the numeral 1? Also I think the word 'node' is potentially confusing. It has a different meaning in Kubernetes than in ZK. 

```suggestion
. Create a new `my-cluster` Kafka cluster with one Zookeeper and one Kafka broker.
```

+
* Use `persistent-claim` storage
* Expose the Kafka cluster outside of the Kubernetes cluster using an external listener configured to use a `nodeport`.
+
--
[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
cat << EOF | kubectl create -n my-kafka-project -f -
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 1
    listeners:
      plain: {}
      tls: {}
      external:
        type: nodeport
        tls: false
    storage:
      type: jbod
      volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: persistent-claim
        size: 100Gi
        deleteClaim: false
    config:
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 1
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 1
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 1
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 1
    storage:
      type: persistent-claim
      size: 100Gi
      deleteClaim: false
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
    userOperator: {}
EOF
----
--

> . Verify that the cluster was successfully deployed:

Reviewer: "Verify" suggests that reader has to actively check something. Really they're just waiting.
```suggestion
. Wait for the cluster to be deployed:
```
